Rey Alejandro Arias Sandoval
03/31/15
Problem Solving

Problem number 1:
A Cat, a Parrot, and a Bag of Seed:
A man finds	himself	on a riverbank with	a cat, a parrot and	a bag of seed. He needs	to transport
all	three to the other side	of the river in	his	boat. However, the boat	has room for only the man
himself	and	one	other item (either the cat,	parrot or seed). In	his	absence, the cat could	eat	the
parrot,	and	the	parrot would eat the bag of	seed. Show how he can get all the passengers to
the	other side, without	leaving	the	wrong ones alone together.

The five steps from the problem-solving video:
The problem is that the man, parrot, and cat need to get across the river but you can only take one thing at a time.
Now we can't leave the cat and bird alone since the cat can eat the bird. We can't leave the bird alone with the seeds
becuase the bird will eat the seeds. We can how ever, leave the cat with the seeds because the cat won't eat them. So
in my opinion, I think we should take the bird first to leave the cat with the bag of seeds. Then the man can put the
cat and bag of seeds inside the boat and he could push the put to the other side of the river. Now if that is not
possible then he could put the cat inside the bag of seeds(if the cat fits) and then get on the boat with the cat inside
the bag of seeds inside the space where only one item fits on the boat then go to the other side of the river.
I think the best possible solution would be the first one. Because the second one might not be possible if the bag is to
small. I made a diagram to show how this would be done.
Link: https://docs.google.com/drawings/d/17pDXvfhO8V34ru5UI7a2PwW5UJcid4mDa5hWB7yK4Bc/edit?usp=sharing

Problem Number 2:
Socks in the Dark:
There are 20 socks in a drawer:	5 pairs	of black socks,	3 pairs	of brown and 2 pairs of	white. You
select the socks in	the	dark and can check them	only after a selection has been	made. What is
the	smallest number	of socks you need to select	to guarantee getting the following:
a) At least one	matching pair
b) At least one	matching pair of each color.

The five steps from the problem-solving video:
The problem is that you need to choose the least amount of socks while still getting a matching pair and getting atleast
a matching pair of each color(black, brown, and white) but you have to do it in the dark and you can only view them
after you have picked the certain amount of socks. The only solution that I see to get atleast one matching pair and
one of each color is to choose 10 socks. The reason for this is because there are 5 pairs of black socks, 3 pairs of
brown socks, and 2 pairs of white socks. 5 + 3 + 2 is 10. Just counting the brown and the white socks there are 10 socks.
 There are 10 black socks, a lot more than brown and white but the same amount when combined. I made a gameplay video
 me playing minecraft, showing you how Choosing the 10 socks does satisfy getting the a matching pair, and a
 matching pair of each color.
 Link: http://youtu.be/A-udx0ASrmU